# Algorithm - Valid Sudoku

## Question
	Determine if a 9x9 Sudoku board is valid. Only the filled cells need to be validated according to the following rules:
	
	Each row must contain the digits 1-9 without repetition.
	Each column must contain the digits 1-9 without repetition.
	Each of the 9 3x3 sub-boxes of the grid must contain the digits 1-9 without repetition.
	
	A partially filled sudoku which is valid.
	
	The Sudoku board could be partially filled, where empty cells are filled with the character '.'.
	
	Example 1:
	
	Input:
	[
	["5","3",".",".","7",".",".",".","."],
	["6",".",".","1","9","5",".",".","."],
	[".","9","8",".",".",".",".","6","."],
	["8",".",".",".","6",".",".",".","3"],
	["4",".",".","8",".","3",".",".","1"],
	["7",".",".",".","2",".",".",".","6"],
	[".","6",".",".",".",".","2","8","."],
	[".",".",".","4","1","9",".",".","5"],
	[".",".",".",".","8",".",".","7","9"]
	]
	Output: true
	Example 2:
	
	Input:
	[
	["8","3",".",".","7",".",".",".","."],
	["6",".",".","1","9","5",".",".","."],
	[".","9","8",".",".",".",".","6","."],
	["8",".",".",".","6",".",".",".","3"],
	["4",".",".","8",".","3",".",".","1"],
	["7",".",".",".","2",".",".",".","6"],
	[".","6",".",".",".",".","2","8","."],
	[".",".",".","4","1","9",".",".","5"],
	[".",".",".",".","8",".",".","7","9"]
	]
	Output: false
	Explanation: Same as Example 1, except with the 5 in the top left corner being 
		modified to 8. Since there are two 8's in the top left 3x3 sub-box, it is invalid.
	Note:
	
	A Sudoku board (partially filled) could be valid but is not necessarily solvable.
	Only the filled cells need to be validated according to the mentioned rules.
	The given board contain only digits 1-9 and the character '.'.
	The given board size is always 9x9.

## My Solution
	class Solution {
		public boolean isValidSudoku(char[][] board) {
			boolean rowAndcolBoolean = rowAndColValid(board);
			boolean subBoolean = subSudokuValid(board);
			if(rowAndcolBoolean && subBoolean){
				return true;
			}else{
				return false;
			}
		}
		//验证每一行和每一列是否有效
		private static boolean rowAndColValid(char[][] board){
			//将数字取出放到Set集合中，对‘.’进行计数fullStopCount
			// 比较 set.size() + fullStopCount == 9
			// 将上面的比较结果作为返回值
			for(int i=0;i<board.length;i++){
				Set<Integer> setNumRow = new HashSet<Integer>();
				Set<Integer> setNumCol = new HashSet<Integer>();
				int fullStopCountRow = 0;
				int fullStopCountCol = 0;
				for(int j=0;j<board[i].length;j++){
					if (".".equals(board[i][j]+"")){
						fullStopCountRow ++;
					}else {
						setNumRow.add(Integer.parseInt(board[i][j]+""));
					}
					if (".".equals(board[j][i]+"")){
						fullStopCountCol ++;
					}else {
						setNumCol.add(Integer.parseInt(board[j][i]+""));
					}
				}
				boolean rowBoolean = (setNumRow.size() + fullStopCountRow) != board.length;
				boolean colBoolean = (setNumCol.size() + fullStopCountCol) != board.length;
				if(rowBoolean || colBoolean){
					return false;
				}
			}
			return true;
		}
		// 验证每一个3*3 的子格是否正常
		private static boolean subSudokuValid(char[][] board){
			for(int x=0, stepLength = 3; x<board.length; x+=stepLength){
				for(int y=0; y<board.length; y+=stepLength){
					Set<Integer> setNumSub = new HashSet<Integer>();
					int fullStopCountSub = 0;
					int stepLengthX = x + stepLength;
					int stepLengthY = y + stepLength;
					for(int i=x; i<stepLengthX; i++){
						for(int j=y; j<stepLengthY; j++){
							//System.out.println("x,y:"+x+y+"; X,Y:"+stepLengthX+stepLengthY+"; i,j"+i+j);
							if (".".equals(board[i][j]+"")){
								fullStopCountSub ++;
							}else {
								setNumSub.add(Integer.parseInt(board[i][j]+""));
							}
						}
					}
					boolean subBoolean = (setNumSub.size() + fullStopCountSub) != board.length;
					if(subBoolean){
						return false;
					}
				}
			}
			return true;
		}
	}